JUDY WOODRUFF: Republicans
faced another challenge
today in their efforts to
dismantle the Affordable
Care Act.
Lisa Desjardins has more.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY),
Majority Leader: This
certainly won't be easy.
Hardly anything in
this process has been.
LISA DESJARDINS: The whirlwind
process ticked on in the Senate
today, but Republicans found
themselves no closer to passing
a plan to repeal or replace
the Affordable Care Act.
Two key GOP ideas failed
by significant margins
in the past 24 hours.
First, last night, nine
Republicans voted against the
latest Senate plan, including
Senator Ted Cruz's proposal
plan to allow insurance plans
with almost no regulations.
Then today came an idea backed
by conservatives like Kentucky
senator Rand Paul, a straight
repeal in two years with
no replacement attached.
Paul said Obamacare's
relations mean options
are far too limited.
SEN.
RAND PAUL (R), Kentucky: Do you
think that the -- that every
American should get to choose,
that every American gets
to choose whether they have
insurance or not, and what kind
of insurance they have?
This is what it's about.
It's a freedom of choice.
LISA DESJARDINS: But his
straight repeal lost 45-55.
Seven Republican senators
rejected the idea.
Republican leaders
instead focused on a
longer game, reminding
their party of its pledge
to repeal Obamacare.
SEN.
JOHN THUNE (R), South
Dakota: We made a commitment
to the American people.
It's time to make
good on that promise.
LISA DESJARDINS: And it now
appears the Senate GOP's best
shot at a bill is what's known
as skinny repeal, repealing
the individual mandate,
and not much else.
That is expected to be one of
the last votes this week, and
so begins the jockeying for
what goes in it.
South Carolina Lindsey Graham
wants more block grants
for states in the plan.
SEN.
LINDSEY GRAHAM (R), South
Carolina: And if it can't do
that, I'm not voting for it.
LISA DESJARDINS: All this a
day after the Senate barely
voted to begin debate.
Today, President Trump singled
out Alaska's Lisa Murkowski
for her vote against starting
debate yesterday, tweeting that
she "really let the Republicans
and our country down yesterday.
Too bad."
Murkowski defended her vote
to The Alaska Dispatch News,
saying, "I didn't think that
we were ready for the
debate, and I have said
pretty consistently
that process really does
matter."
As it does to Democrats, like
Oregon's Ron Wyden, calling
for fixes, rather than repeal
for Obamacare.
SEN.
RON WYDEN (D), Oregon: We
all agree that the Affordable
Care Act is not perfect.
We're going to take steps
immediately to stabilize the
private insurance market.
LISA DESJARDINS: The clock is
now ticking on the 20 hours
of debate required for any
bill.
After that, any amendments
not already passed can
be tacked on in a process
known as vote-a-rama.
Senate Republican
Whip John Cornyn:
SEN.
JOHN CORNYN (R), Texas: We will
conclude one way or another
on either late Thursday or
Friday morning.
LISA DESJARDINS: That means
the Senate, and Americans
watching, have two days to weigh
in on this critical draft about
the future of health care.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Lisa Desjardins.